A little while ago, somebody was expressing to me just how complex the immigration laws are in the United States.
I'm not that familiar with immigration law in the United States, and so I was doing a little research and kind of looking this up to try to kind of grasp, well, what do they mean when they say it's super difficult?
Well, I found a paper written by the Cato Institute, and in that paper there was a graphic.
The graphics on the screen, you're not going to be able to read it.
Even if you have it right up next to your face, it's pretty hard to read.
But what they tried to do in this article was sort of flow chart out how the immigration process works in the United States.
And I will confess, this is the simplified version of it.
When I tried to follow all the stuff that was happening, I was like, well, this is hopelessly complex.
Who can understand this stuff?
Now,
Granted, the Cato Institute is a libertarian organization, so I do think they have a bias in trying to show how complex something is.
But still, nonetheless, seeing this, it feels overwhelming.
I read in the same paper that the standard immigration law textbook is 2,656 pages long with 300 pages of footnotes
on sort of legal cases and precedents and things that keep in mind as you try to navigate the immigration system in the United States.
Now, while I was thinking about this, it sort of dawned on me for a lot of people I think Christianity can feel the same, especially to those who aren't newer to Christianity.
I mean, we have a book, we have a Bible, it can feel overwhelming.
There are
31,102 verses in the Bible.
Over 800,000 plus words depending on the translation.
The one we have in the church and the racks in front of you, this is about a thousand pages of pretty small print.
And if you were to take some of the things the Bible talks about them and lay them out on a map,
Things like predestination and free will, the relationship of church and state, how divorce and remarriage happen, work, gender, money, those kinds of things, race and ethnicity, it would look pretty complex.
But the interesting thing is the passage we're going to look at this morning in that God says, my commands are not burdensome.
but they do sometimes feel burdensome.
It feels like there's a lot of them.
There's 66 books in here.
There's a lot of verses.
It feels like there's a lot of things God has to say, and some of the things seem difficult to do.
Almost all of them feel very counter-cultural.
And so what should we make of the idea that when God says, my commands are not burdensome, yet often the Bible and the word of God feels burdensome?
You see, we've been talking about the importance of loving God and the best thing that we can do to love God in return for what He's done for us is to love others.
Well, how do you know how to love someone else?
Well, God says, I wrote it down for you.
But the problem is if we think this is overwhelming, if we think this is intimidating, if we're like, I don't even know where to start, well, then how are we going to know how to love our neighbor?
So this morning, we want to look at a passage in which God claims and says that His commands are not burdensome.
And we want to try to understand how might we be thinking about the Bible and the commands of God wrongly when we do think they are burdensome and how this morning might we be able to think differently about God's Word so that we might recognize the truth of the grace that God gives us in the commands He has for us.
So with that said, let me invite you to take a Bible and turn to the book of 1 John chapter 5.
Like I said, there are Bibles in the seat in front of you and the rack in front of you.
In those Bibles, it's page 988.
So again, we're already near the thousand page mark.
Here we are looking at a really long book, but we're in 1 John chapter 5 page 988.
And we're going to think together about
The Word of God, the commands of God to us today and what the Lord has to say about that.
So 1 John 5, I'm going to read verses 1 to 4, page 988, 1 John 5.
Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ is born of God and everyone who loves the Father loves his child as well.
This is how we know that we love the children of God by loving God and carrying out His commands.
In fact, this is love for God to keep His commands.
And His commands are not burdensome.
For everyone born of God overcomes the world.
This is the victory that has overcome the world, even our faith.
Now the logic of the passage is pretty straightforward.
The first part of verse 1, God loves us and so He sent Jesus to be the Savior of the world.
Second half of verse 1, we respond correctly to the love God has for us by loving His other children, by loving our neighbors, loving those that are in our lives.
Verse 2,
When we love others, how we do that is by doing the commands of God.
God tells us, do these things, and this is how you will love your neighbor.
Verse three, the first half of verse three, when we love our neighbor, we are not only loving our neighbor by obeying the commands of God, we're also loving God by doing that.
And then comes the statement that might be considered slightly controversial.
Second half of verse three.
and his commands are not burdensome.
What God tells us to do is not burdensome.
And again, but you look and you're like, this is a pretty thick book.
It can feel a little bit like immigration law.
It can feel like there's a great flowchart in decision tree to try to figure things out.
We can think, man, there's lots of stuff that God is saying, what do you mean it's not burdensome?
Well, taking God in his word, when he says it's not burdensome, maybe when we think it is burdensome, we might be thinking about the Bible and thinking about the commands of God incorrectly.
If we think of the Bible like the immigration laws in the United States, we're going to come away thinking it's burdensome, and so maybe that's the wrong way to think about
the commands of God.
So what I'd like to do this morning is offer four different ways, different than the immigration law, to think about God's word, four different metaphors.
Now these are not mutually exclusive so we don't pick one over the other, but these are four different metaphors that we can use to help us think about the Bible and the word of God differently so that we might come to recognize that it is not.
meant to be burdensome.
Now, no metaphor is perfect, and these metaphors might seem a little sort of weird.
Just in the sense of when you use a metaphor, you're trying to take things from everyday life and use them to help explain something that is complex.
Well, the Bible, the Word of God, the commands of God are complex enough that we have four different metaphors this morning to try to help us shape
a view of God's word whereby we can come to understand that it is not burdensome.
So, let's start metaphor number one.
What if we thought about the Bible like TurboTax software?
It's the start of a new year, which means tax season is coming.
Now, for some who are accountants, this might actually fill you with joy.
or at least you're not intimidated by it.
For the rest of us, it's overwhelming because the tax code is even more complex than the immigration code.
And you try to figure out how do you find your way through this?
Well, I don't know about you.
I use tax prep software, and it's actually pretty helpful.
You might use something different.
TurboTax, one of the things I like about it is along the way, it's offering me these comforting statements like, hey,
We're doing income right now.
Don't worry about expenses, we'll get to that later.
And I think to myself, oh good, the software knows when we're supposed to enter other numbers.
All I gotta do is enter my income right now.
There's also somebody that you can tax their call to be like, hey, I don't even have any idea what this is talking about.
Can you help me with this?
What have we thought about the Bible that way?
What I mean is, although the whole Bible
feels a little like the tax code.
Like, wow, there's lots of stuff in here.
In reality, when we're talking about the commands of God, God does not give us commands all at once.
Meaning, it's not like he just kind of dropped the Bible into our world and was like, there's the book, learn it, know everything, you're responsible for all of it.
Right now, there'll be a test tomorrow.
That's not what he does.
In fact, he functions a lot more like tax prep software in which sermons are only on one passage at a time.
Bible reading is on one passage at a time.
When you're going through a devotional, it's one passage at a time.
In Bible study or in Sunday school, God does not give us all the commands all at once.
That would be overwhelming.
Instead, what he does is every Sunday,
or Tuesday morning, or daily when you get up.
He has some portion of the commands of God for us to focus on.
This morning, we're in 1 John 5, 1 to 4.
What about Leviticus?
It's in there, but we're not worried about Leviticus right now.
And you can think about the Spirit saying things like, don't worry about Leviticus.
We're focused on 1 John 5 right now.
We'll get to Leviticus later.
In this way, the commands of God are not burdensome because He doesn't give them to us all at once.
He says, this is what I have for you in this moment.
This is what I want you to think about today.
This is what I want you to focus on.
Metaphor number two.
Maybe we could think about the Bible like a concierge.
Now you might think guidebook or trip advisor, whatever you want to say, when you go on a trip, when you go into a new place, if you go on a cruise or you go on a resort, if you go someplace you've never been before, often the hotel or the cruise ship or the resort will have a concierge.
And the concierge's job is, look, you've not been here before.
Let me explain to you what goes on in this place.
Here's the fun things you should do.
Here's some restaurants you might want to try.
Here's an activity that maybe you've never done before or haven't done in a long time.
Right now in Grand Rapids, most of us are probably not thinking about snorkeling.
But if you go on a trip, the concierge is like, hey, look, the snorkeling's really great.
Here's where you ought to go.
This is how you should do it.
You're going to really enjoy it.
So it is with the Bible.
In many ways,
when we become Christians, we are entering a new world.
It's still this world, but it's the world of eternal life.
It's the kingdom of God.
It's a realm in which Jesus is Lord and He is reigning and ruling over all things.
Well, in this new realm, it's like going to a new vacation spot.
And we need someone to sort of say, hey, look, in this new place, you ought to try these things.
You may not be familiar with these activities because they weren't a part of your life before, but they can be a part of your life now.
In that way, the Bible is like a concierge.
It's like, hey, look, if you've never tried giving, if you've never known the joy of contributing financially to someone else and not just to yourself, you should try it.
You're going to be blessed by it.
The Bible also talks about fasting.
Part of the purpose is fasting in the kingdom of, I mean fasting in the world is just for losing weight.
In the kingdom of God, it actually turbocharges our prayer life.
It gives real power to things.
And so the Bible is like a concierge saying, hey, try this activity.
You may not be familiar with it, but you're going to love it.
It's powerful, it's hard, but it's powerful.
which is the second reason why the commands of God are not burdensome.
Is there introducing us to a world?
And they're telling us activities that when we do those activities, we're going to experience the blessings of the world we're now a part of.
A concierge is not meant to be burdensome, a concierge is meant to be helpful.
You can ignore the concierge and kind of do whatever you want, but most people when they get to the end, they're like, oh man, there was so much stuff here, I just got overwhelmed by it all.
So too, with the kingdom of God.
The Bible is designed by God to say, hey, in this new world, try these activities.
You're gonna find that they're gonna really make your time in the kingdom of God extremely beneficial.
metaphor number three.
The Bible is like a concert writer.
What we mean by a concert writer is bands when they're going to stay at venues.
They send a sort of contractor, a concert writer, which is like, look, this is what we expect to have happen when we get there.
And in the writer, the band will spell out, this is what we think the stage is supposed to be like.
This is what we want the sound equipment to work like.
This is what our accommodations should be like.
Now, one of the most famous examples of a concert writer is from a rock band from the 80s and early 90s called Van Halen.
And in Van Halen's 53-page writer, they had a statement buried somewhere in the middle of the document that said that they wanted all the brown M&Ms removed from the giant bowl of M&Ms that they asked for in their dressing rooms.
Now people gave him a super hard time for this because this looks like sort of rock star privilege like, are you too good to eat brown?
I mean, they all taste the same anyway.
Are you really going to make people go through and dig out all the brown M&Ms?
Well, it turns out there was a rationale for what they were asking for.
Apparently Van Halen had been on a tour and the technical specifications that they had put in their long rider had not been met.
And so the tour went relatively poorly.
So they came up with the idea of inserting the brown M&M clause in the middle of the rider because it gave them a very quick way when they walked into a venue.
They immediately went to the bowl of M&Ms.
If there were brown M&Ms in the bowl, they'd have to go upstairs and recheck all the technical connections because probably all of that stuff was wrong too.
If they walked in and there were no brown M&Ms in the bowl,
Then they could be confident that the venue had taken their request seriously, that they must have read the rest of the rider and done all of the stuff that's in that.
And they could rest at ease that the technical specifications for their music was probably the way that they wanted them to be.
The Bible is kind of similar.
At first glance, you might think, well, the Bible is burdensome because there's all sorts of stuff kind of buried here and there.
It's not like on page one, here are the most important five things to know.
For example, there is one command in the Bible that explicitly states and very explicit worms that we're supposed to gather together regularly to meet for worship.
Hebrews 10, 25, don't forsake the assembling of yourselves together.
You might think, well, that's a little weird.
Why not like say it more often?
Or why not put it in the front?
Or be like, here are the eight things you're supposed to know we're supposed to do.
And why not put it there?
That seems important.
Well, the Bible is not burdensome because God has sort of buried things in different places because while the commands of God are not burdensome, they are serious.
And the Lord is like, do you care?
Do you care enough to find this stuff out?
Do you care enough to seek after me with all your heart?
And so he has buried some things in some obscure places or put some things in some strange places, not because he's trying to make it hard, but because he's trying to encourage us, look, this matters.
This is serious.
If you're going to take one verse seriously, then you'll take all the verses seriously.
And it turns out that Hebrews 10, 25 is not the only time.
that God says that we ought to gather together.
He just says it in lots of different ways, and you don't find it until you see the one near the end of the Bible, actually, and begin to check out the fact that, oh, God's talking about this over and over again, all over the Scriptures.
So the third reason, we might think the commands of God are burdensome, because important stuff seems to be buried all over the place, but they're not burdensome.
It's just a sign of how seriously God takes our behavior and what he has going on for us in the kingdom of God.
Metaphor number four, the Bible is like a note from your spouse.
And I could have just said loved one, but that doesn't quite work because when you're married,
there's a contractual vow sort of obligation you have to another person.
Now, if you're not married, you can just sort of think about this as a note from a roommate, could be a note from a parent, could be a note from a friend.
But I'm using the example of a note from a spouse.
Suppose you wake up in the morning and there's a note on the countertop from your spouse and it says, can you please make sure you empty the dishwasher before you leave for work?
Or it says, hey, look, can you make sure you finish dinner?
Or it might say, hey, can you pick up our child from this practice at 4.30 today?
Now, at first glance, you might think that's burdensome.
This person is telling me something I got to do today.
But in reality, it's not burdensome and it's not meant to be burdensome because you've made a vow to love this other person.
And now here in kindness, this other person is saying, here's how you can love me today in very specific and tangible ways.
So it is with God and the commands of God in his word.
You might think, what does somebody give the God of the universe who has everything?
I mean, how do you give him a present?
Well, he spells it out pretty clearly.
This is a note from him to say, hey, if you'd like to love me in return,
If you're grateful for the stuff that I've done for you, here's some very tangible things you can do to show me love.
So, for example, when you read in the Bible, remember the prisoner as if you are suffering with them.
This is God writing you a note to say, hey, look, I love you.
You love me.
We have a relationship in Jesus.
If you want to know how you can love me today, remember the prisoner.
Write a note to a prisoner, pray for somebody in prison.
Think about those who are in the justice system and how that's working.
Pray for such people.
That's God in his kindness, not meaning to be burdensome, but saying, look, you can't have a relationship if there's not love.
How do we express love to God?
God says, I'll tell you, here's a way you could do it.
This would be meaningful to me.
And so the commands of God are not burdensome.
They do require something of us, but they're not burdensome because God is simply expressing to us.
If you want to show me love, here's tangible, concrete, clear ways that you can show love to me by loving others.
For metaphors, they're not mutually exclusive.
They may be a little weird out there like, I thought you'd use like a sword or something, the kind of biblical metaphor.
But the idea of metaphors is how could we think about the Bible and the commands of God differently or anew so that we might come to discover they are not burdensome.
But although they're different metaphors, there is one thing that ties all four of them together.
And that is there is a personal connection in all of the metaphors.
See, we talked about the immigration code.
The immigration code is super complex, but guess what?
If you hire an immigration lawyer, that helps a lot.
Because the immigration lawyer is familiar with all the code, and he or she's able to guide you through the process so that it does not feel as burdensome or as overwhelming.
But when we think about tax prep software, the idea is that the spirit is providing for us, hey, this is what we're working on today.
God knows this is what we need.
This is what you need to be working on today.
And so the spirit simply provides it as we go along.
When you think about a concierge, a concierge is someone who's been here before.
He understands it.
He's explaining, try this.
You're going to love it.
It's a blessing.
You should do this.
Where are you from?
You've never done anything like this.
You're going to enjoy this.
There's a personal aspect to it.
The idea of a concert writer, there's a band that stands behind even the weird brown M&M idea, which is, no, there's a reason why we've done these things.
There's a reason why we've put this here.
There's a reason why we're doing these things so that you can experience the blessings of the way this music is meant to be experienced.
And ultimately, a note from your spouse is a note from your spouse.
It's a note from a person.
And they might not say it this way.
They might just say, empty the dishwasher.
But in reality, what it's saying is, thank you for loving me.
Here's how you could show love for me today.
This would be a blessing to me.
You see, the reason why the commands of God are not burdensome is because God is love.
Everything he says, everything he does is loving.
Simply handing somebody a thousand-page book with 31,000 verses and say, you're responsible for this whole thing.
There'll be a text next Wednesday.
Please don't fail.
That's not kind.
That's not loving.
That's not what God does.
He just simply says, look, I know it's a lot.
Let's just work on this right now.
Maybe you heard that in Cece's testimony, how along her life, the Lord is working on various things that differ.
That's how he works with us.
The reason why the commands of God are not burdensome is because God is love.
And he did not write these things to harm us, but to bless us.
Jesus says, come to me, all you are weary, and tired, and I will give you rest.
Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and humble in heart."
His commands are not burdensome.
Psalm 119, David says, I love your law.
I love your word.
David is obviously viewing it more like these metaphors and less like immigration law.
It's not meant to be burdensome.
In Deuteronomy 30, Moses says, the commands of God are not that hard.
It's not like you had to go up to heaven to figure out what is His God wants.
And it's not like you have to try to experiment on earth to figure out, God wrote it down.
He's like, look, I'm not trying to trick you.
There's no secret information.
Paul picks up on what Moses says in Romans 10.
The commands of God are not burdensome because Jesus became one of us to show us how to do this.
And through the spirit, God explains to us and empowers us to do these things.
At the end of the day, the commands of God are not burdensome because God is love.
They are serious and they're important and they're not to be ignored.
but they're not burdensome because they are the expression of a loving God showing us.
This is how this world works.
This is how blessing comes.
This is where life really works.
So without in mind, I have an assignment for you this week.
Claritograph is
person has been part of Calvin Church for a long, long time.
He just finished a term as an elder here at Calvary.
Several years ago, he wrote a book called the 10 Second Rule.
It's a really great book.
The idea of the book is you and I should do whatever we're reasonably certain God is asking us to do, kind of within the next 10 seconds.
So don't finish it in 10 seconds, but just sort of don't stop to be like, well, should I really obey or not.
Just try to do it.
Now,
If you've not read the book, you should, but that's not the assignment.
It's a good read, but that's not the assignment.
The assignment is this.
This week, I'm asking through the spirit that you go back and read through first John.
Five chapters.
I'm not asking you to read the Old Testament and the New Testament, just five chapters.
And the idea is that God has us in first John as a church.
Just go back and read it.
You can read it all in one day.
You can read it over various days.
You can read it several times.
And the assignment is, listen for anything God might be telling you to do.
And if you're reasonably certain that God is speaking to you, try to do it.
For example, maybe like a concierge as you read through 1 John,
You'll hear of a practice that you're like, I'm not sure I'm doing that.
Or you might be reminded I haven't done that for a while.
For example, you might get to 1 John 5 and find out that God commands us to pray for those who are trapped in sin.
That's like a concierge saying, hey, look, you're now part of this world.
And in this world, we pray for people who are stuck in sin.
We don't condemn them.
We don't judge them.
We don't yell at them.
We pray for them.
And maybe that's the Lord telling you, hey, look, you know this person that you love.
You know they're doing things they shouldn't be doing.
I'd like you just to pray for them this week.
So your assignment is, if you're reasonably certain that's what God's saying to you, then just do it.
Or maybe, like a note from your spouse, you get to the passage in 1 John 2 and you read God's saying to you, do not love the world or the things of the world.
And at that moment, as you're reading it,
Maybe you feel like the Lord's telling you, hey, look, stop watching that show on Netflix.
And you might feel like, I don't really feel like emptying the dishwasher, but man, I probably should.
You might want to keep watching the show because maybe it's really engaging.
But maybe the Lord is saying, hey, look, all that's doing is creating a love for some stuff that I don't want you loving.
If you're relatively certain that God may be telling you to turn off that show or to stop watching it, then these times just do it.
Just do it right there.
Tell me, if the spouse writes you a note about emptying the dishwasher, you might come up with all sorts of reasons why not to empty the dishwasher.
It will go a lot better if you just empty the dishwasher.
So it is with God.
If he's telling you to turn off that show, it's not because he's being burdensome.
It's because at the end of the day, that's not really that good for you.
It's not helping.
Maybe the assignment is sort of like a concert writer.
God wants you to read through first John and he really wants you to read through it four, five, six, seven times because maybe the first time through you don't see anything.
And he like, well, this didn't work.
The idea is is God's like, look, I'm serious.
Are you willing to go looking again?
Like, are you willing to read it?
Well, you read it in different translation.
If you haven't heard from God yet, will you read it again and again?
The idea is is the commands are not burdensome, but it is serious.
So that's your assignments as we get.
Everybody clear on the assignment?
You're going to read through 1 John, just five chapters.
And anything you're reasonably certain God might be saying to you.
Try your best this week to do that thing, to put that into practice.
So you want to great Satan's great ploys.
is we want to love God in return, and we want to love others, but we're like, well, I don't know how, and then we think, well, I could read the Bible, but where would I even start?
How would I do this?
This feels too overwhelming.
I don't have any time in my day.
There's stuff in here I might not understand.
I don't know Greek and Hebrew.
I don't know how to figure all this stuff out.
I don't even know where the book of Hagii is.
How would I even find it?
But in the Bible, we have the commands of God.
We have the God who is love, who is speaking to us.
Now, they're serious.
They can be hard.
They cost something, but they are not unnecessarily burdensome.
And so the encouragement is, stop listening to all the reasons why not to, and just simply open it up and see what God has to say.
You're not responsible for knowing, memorizing, and obeying everything in here today.
Nobody can do that.
All you and I are responsible for is whatever God happens to be saying to us now.
As a church, He's told us to be in first John.
If you do this assignment, God will speak something to you.
If you don't hear Him the first time through, read it again.
At the end, you will find that because God is love, His commands are not meant to harm.
They're not meant to burden.
They're not meant to be overwhelming.
They're meant to give freedom and life and joy.
They're meant to transform.
They're meant to change our hearts.
They're meant to make us enjoy this eternal life that Jesus has died so that we might have.
Amen.
Let's pray together.
Father, at the beginning, we thank You for Jesus that He is the light of the world.
And we also thank You at the end for Your Word, for Your Word is a light to our feet and a lamp to our path.
Lord, it is a sure and steady guide because You are present in and through Your Word.
So Father, I have given to Your children the assignment that You have asked us to do.
Lord, I can do no more.
It is up to You.
Lord, I pray that when they open your word and they look for commands from you that you would speak to each one of us, that you would tell us what you want us to hear, that you would give us the courage to obey and that your spirit might empower us to realize that everything you tell us is for our good.
Thank you, Lord, for loving us enough that you have not made us try to ascend to heaven to drag this out of you or experiment all over the earth to try to figure this all out, but it's near us.
It's close to us.
It's in our hands.
It's in languages that we can read and understand.
God, thank you for your mercy and grace.
We praise you in Jesus' name.
Amen.